git - it is a version control system which is installed on local machin and directory created using git is also called as local git repository.

github/bitbucket - its a platform where we store our local repository but the same repo is called as remote repository once stored on github.
since its stored on github's remote cloud servers.

steps
1)you create a new folder(working directory)
to make this a git repository(local git repository)
2)you first login to gitbash.
then -
you initialized that folder.   
by -
3)doing git init on folder which
creates LOCAL GIT REPOSITORY( .git) inside that folder.
(The git init command creates a new local Git repository. It can be used to convert an existing, unversioned project to a Git repository or initialize a new, empty repository.)
(now that working directory is converted to local repository) 
to start capturing the history of files we now have Git repository created.

4)its time to create a file - file1.txt
when you create file in folder its in working directory

5)to add the file in working directory to staging area(virtual area)
 use - 
git add file1.txt 
the changes will be saved in .git directory as metadata(internal working)
(The git add command adds a change in the working directory to the staging area. It tells Git that you want to include updates to a particular file in the next commit.)

6)finalize it into repository by commiting the changes to your local repository
use -
git commit -m "file1 added"     (-m is message in " " write any msg in it)

the metadata of file1.txt is added to .git repostitory
 

local Git repository(.git directory) contains code and its metadata.
 

7)git status - you keep checking if there is any modification in the file1.txt 
if there any it will show
 "changes not staged for commit     modified: file1.txt  "

now to add all changes to .git we use  

git add .               (all commit)S

8)now 

lets take wedding example - where couples are on the stage and there is a photographer and guest(files) wants to take picture with them
in this anology -  
ambience/hall is working directory.
stage is like staging area 
photographer or album is .git repository

to capture the picture guest(file) have to get up to stage(staging area) and then photographer will click(commit) the picture which will be saved in album(.git)


git log 
to check for number of commits or history



